Ever since the release of Chad GBT, AI
executives in the news media have been
hyperventilating about how AI will take
everybody's jobs and thus cause mass
unemployment. We are now in the fourth
year of the AI bubble and there is very
little evidence that AI is displacing a
significant number of jobs. According to
the consulting firm Challenger, AI was
responsible for 55,000 layoffs in the US
in 2025. While that sounds like a lot,
we need to put that number into context.
In 2025, there were over 1 million
layoffs. So, AI was only responsible for
5% of total job losses. For those 55,000
layoffs, that just means the company
said the layoffs were due to AI. There's
no way to confirm that the jobs were
actually replaced by AI. In many cases,
a company needs to conduct layoffs for
other reasons. For example, if they
overhired in the past, instead of
admitting the real reason, they will
often credit the layoffs to AI because
this sounds better to stock market
analysts. In the few cases where
companies have actually tried to replace
employees with AI, the results have
often been poor. A recent study in the
UK found that 55% of companies who
replaced workers with AI now regret the
decision and in many cases are hiring
them back. Of course, different jobs
will have different impacts from AI. One
of the jobs believed to be most at risk
is software engineering. On paper,
software engineering should be one of
the easiest jobs for AI to replace. LLMs
are trained by scraping huge amounts of
data from websites like Stack Overflow.
Anthropics Claude Code and OpenAI's
Codeex can output huge amounts of code
very quickly. In January of 2026,
Anthropic CEO Dario Amade made the
following prediction. I have engineers
within Enthropic who say, "I don't write
any code anymore. I just I just let the
model write the code. I edit it. I do
the things around it. I think I don't
know. We might be six to 12 months away
from when the model is doing most maybe
all of what SWES do end to end. And then
it's a question of how fast does that
loop close. According to Amadeday,
within 6 to 12 months, AI will be able
to do everything that software engineers
do end to end. That might sound scary to
aspiring software engineers. In fact,
many universities have reported a
decrease in computer science majors as
students are scared that software
engineering jobs will all be replaced by
AI. The only problem is Daario Amade
made the exact same prediction almost 12
months ago. In March of 2025, Amade made
the following prediction. But now
getting to kind of the job side of this.
Um I I I do have a fair amount of
concern about this. Um on one hand, I
think comparative advantage is a very
powerful tool. If I look at coding
programming which is one area where AI
is making the most progress um what we
are finding is we are not far from a
world I think we'll be there in three to
six months where AI is writing 90% of
the code and then in 12 months we may be
in a world where AI is writing
essentially all of the code that was in
March of 2025 in 3 to 6 months AI will
write 90% of all code in 12 months which
is basically now AI will write essent
essentially all of the code. Of course,
this hasn't happened. Basically, since
the release of Chat GPT, tech CEOs have
been saying that AI is going to take
everybody's jobs within 12 months. 12
months later, AI hasn't taken any jobs.
But then they make the exact same
prediction delayed by another 12 months.
In this video, we'll explain why AI is
not replacing a significant number of
jobs and is not likely to do so in the
foreseeable future. And more
importantly, we'll look at why AI CEOs
want you to believe that AI will take
your job even when it won't.
Let's start off by looking at software
engineering in particular. It is true
that many software engineers use AI
tools. According to Google, 90% of
technology workers now use some form of
LLM during their work. This may very
well be true, but just because software
engineers use AI doesn't mean they can
be replaced by AI. So, how do coders
actually use AI? Let's say you're a
software engineer. Even if you're very
experienced and capable, you will forget
certain functions from time to time.
Back in the day, you would go on Stack
Overflow. You'd find examples of the
function you're looking for and copy
paste that into your own code. AI models
are trained by scraping the internet.
They can pretty easily recreate
everything you would read on Stack
Overflow because they are trained on
this data. Now, instead of going to
Stack Overflow, you can go to ChatgBT to
look up functions. This is much easier.
You can even use an AI native IDE like
cursor or codeex to have the AI write
whatever function directly in your code
so you don't need to copy paste. Using
AI can save you a little bit of time
compared to using Stack Overflow. Most
AI coding tools are pretty cheap
compared to the salary of a software
engineer. So it makes sense that these
tools have been widely adopted. If you
see a statistic that 90% of software
engineers use AI, this can give a highly
misleading impression of how useful the
AI actually is.
A software engineer does much more than
just memorize a bunch of functions from
Stack Overflow. In real world
environments, engineers must collaborate
closely with product managers,
designers, security teams, and other
developers to define requirements, and
make thoughtful trade-offs. They spend
significant time debugging issues,
maintaining and refactoring existing
systems, reviewing code, writing tests,
and ensuring reliability and performance
at scale. You can try to use AI to
create an entire piece of software or
even an app. This is called vibe coding.
The idea is that someone with limited or
no coding experience can create a new
app just by giving the AI natural
language prompts. But there are huge
problems with this approach.
There are very few examples of software
or apps that were created with AI alone.
The highest profile example I could find
was Moltbook. Moltbook is a recently
released social media platform. It has a
very basic interface similar in some
ways to 4chan. is supposed to be a
social media platform for AI agents. The
idea is you create an AI agent with chat
GPT or Claude and give it access to
Moltbook. People's AIs will talk to each
other on Moltbook and have completely
fake AI conversations. There is zero
practical use case for Moltbook. It's
basically just an AI gimmick. The
creator of Moltbook is a guy called Matt
Schlick. He claims to have used AI to
create the Moltbook website. He didn't
write a single line of code by hand.
Within days, hackers found
vulnerabilities in Mlebook's code, which
they were able to exploit. Hackers were
able to steal 35,000 email addresses and
1.5 million Open AI and anthropic API
keys. These were the API keys people
used to power their AI agents. If your
API keys are stolen, the hacker can use
it to rack up huge bills that will be
charged to your account. So yes, you can
vibe code an entire app or website, but
it will have so many security holes and
other problems that no real company will
be willing to put their name behind it.
Security is a huge problem with vibe
coding. The cyber security firm Apiro
has witnessed a massive increase in
security breaches over the past year.
They attribute this to software
engineers increasingly relying on AI
tools to write code.
AI coding tools cannot fully replace
software engineers, but maybe they can
increase the productivity of each
software engineer, so you need fewer of
them in total. While this sounds like a
reasonable hypothesis, it is not borne
out by the data. Many software engineers
think that AI increases their
productivity. The AI spits out a lot of
code very fast, so it feels like you're
working faster. But in reality, the code
has so many problems in it that you
spend more time fixing the problems than
it would take to just write the code by
hand.
In early 2025, a nonprofit organization
called Model Evaluation and Threat
Research, or METR, ran an experiment to
see how effective AI coding tools are.
They hired 16 software engineers to
complete various coding tasks. The
software engineers had about 5 years of
experience. Half of them were allowed to
use AI coding tools while the other half
were not. The coding tool was Cursor Pro
using Claw 3.7, which was considered to
be the best coding LLM at the time. The
results were shocking. Before completing
the task, they asked the software
engineers to estimate how long it would
take. The ones who were not allowed to
use AI thought it would take two hours
to complete the task. The ones who were
allowed to use AI thought it would only
take them an hour and a half. In
reality, the software engineers who were
not allowed to use AI were able to
complete the tasks in about 1 hour and
40 minutes, less than they forecasted.
The ones who used AI took well over 2
hours. While software engineers think AI
speeds them up, it actually slows them
down.
Over the past few years, the media hype
around AI job losses has reached a point
of near absurdity. Let's watch a clip of
Anthropic CEO Dario Amade speaking to
CNN in May of 2025.
Dario, you've said that AI could wipe
out half of all entry-level white collar
jobs and spike unemployment to 10 to
20%. How soon might that happen?
Well, let's uh uh uh well, first of all,
thanks for having me on the show, but uh
uh just to back up a little bit, you
know, I've been building AI for over a
decade, and I think maybe the most
salient feature of the technology, and
what is driving all of this is how fast
the technology is getting better. Um, a
couple years ago, you could say that AI
models were maybe as good as a smart
high school student. I would say that
now they're as good as a smart college
student and and and sort of reaching
past that. I really worry particularly
at the entry level that the AI models
are are are you know ve very much at the
center of what what an entry level human
worker would do. Um and so it's hard to
estimate you know exactly what the
impact would be and and you know there
that there's always this question of
adaptation and and you know these these
technology changes have happened before
but I think what is striking to me about
the that this this AI boom is that it's
bigger and it's broader and it's moving
faster than anything has before and so
compared to previous technology changes
I'm a little bit more worried about the
labor impact simply because it's
happening so fast that yes people will
adapt but they they they may not adapt
fast enough and so there there you know
there there may be an adjustment period.
you are running an incredibly important
company uh in AI uh and you know this
better better than anybody or as well as
as you know all the names we know people
Sam Alman and others who are working
Elon Musk and AI
why are you raising the alarm because
it's not necessarily I would think in
your best interest because a lot of the
messages we hear from at least publicly
from you know some AI CEOs and stuff is
is a little bit more calming saying
like, you know, these agents are going
to be great in your life and and yes,
there may be problems. Uh but, you know,
writ large, this is a fantastic thing.
>> Yeah. I mean, you know, I think I think
the reason I'm raising the alarm is that
I think others others haven't as much
and you know, I think I think someone
needs to say it. You know,
>> Dario Amade did something very clever
here and he completely fooled the CNN
anchor. Anthropic is developing AI.
Amday is sounding the alarm about the
negative impacts AI will have on the job
market. Supposedly, it will cause the
unemployment rate to increase to 20%
within the next 5 years. Emay seems
credible because he is sounding the
alarm about AI. Despite being the CEO of
an AI company, his alarmist statements
seem to be motivated by a genuine
concern about the people who will lose
their jobs. While I can't get inside
Amadeay's head, I believe his
motivations to be very different.
Anthropic mostly sells his cla chatbot
and claude code product to enterprise
customers. For a company to spend large
amounts of money on clawed code, they
need to believe that this technology
will allow them to lay off software
engineers. That's the only way to
justify the spending. For Anthropic to
sell its products, it needs people to
believe that AI can replace human
workers. But as we will see shortly,
there is very little evidence that AI
can replace human workers. In fact,
there's a lot of evidence to the
contrary.
One of the problems with reporting about
AI is that public company CEOs often
exaggerate how much their companies are
using AI because they think this sounds
good to Wall Street analysts. For
example, in June of 2025, Salesforce CEO
Mark Beni off claimed that AI is doing
30 to 50% of all internal work within
Salesforce. If this were really the
case, they should lay off 30 to 50% of
their employees and recognize huge cost
savings. Of course, this hasn't
happened. In September, it was reported
that Salesforce laid off 4,000 customer
support workers. Salesforce has over
70,000 employees, so this is only about
3%. It was later revealed that
Salesforce didn't even lay off 4,000
people. They reassigned 4,000 customer
support workers to other roles, but
there were no net layoffs. They tried to
get AI to do customer service, but this
has caused huge problems with faulty
responses. A Salesforce executive told
the information that the company has
lost confidence in LMS over the past
year due to poor performance at customer
service tasks. Mark Beni off made huge
claims about AI which generated a lot of
media headlines, but there's really no
evidence that Salesforce is getting any
efficiency gains from AI.
Another example is Microsoft. If any
company can replace workers with AI, it
should be Microsoft. Microsoft owns 27%
of Open AAI and uses OpenAI's technology
to create its own AI coding tools such
as GitHub Copilot. Microsoft requires
its employees to use AI. AI usage is
tied to performance reviews. If you
don't use AI enough, you'll have your
bonus cut or you might even be fired. In
May of 2025, Microsoft CEO Saja Nadella
boasted that 20 to 30% of code at
Microsoft is now written by AI. The
shift to AI coding has coincided with
huge problems with Windows 11, which is
plagued by bugs and security issues.
Despite bold claims about AI replacing
humans, Microsoft's number of full-time
employees has continued to increase.
Perhaps the most egregious case of AI
hype comes from Black Rockck, which is
the world's largest asset management
company. Black Rockck is a major
investor in AI infrastructure. In 2024,
they created a new subsidiary called the
Black Rockck AI Partnership, which
invests tens of billions of dollars into
AI data centers. Black Rockck CEO Larry
Frink is a huge proponent of AI and
claims that his company is deploying AI
internally to improve efficiency. In
January of 2026, Think spoke at the
World Economic Forum where he boasted
about the revolutionary impact of AI
>> with your data. I could just tell you
from at our firm things that would take
12 hours to compute now takes minutes
for us processing 14 trillion dollars of
other people's money with hundreds of
thousands of different um mandates um we
could do that instantaneous and we you
know that to me if it wasn't for the
technology and AI today we would not be
able to function to the scale that we're
operating.
>> Black Rockck manages $14 trillion of
client assets. Black Rockck's operations
are so complicated that it's not
possible to manage without AI. Without
AI, Black Rockck could not function at
its current scale. There are a few
problems within narrative. Generative AI
only became widely available after Chat
GBT was released in 2022. Before then,
Black Rockck was not using Generative AI
to any significant degree. Back in 2021,
Black Rockck already had $10 trillion of
assets under management. That's within
the same order of magnitude of what they
manage now. They were able to function
just fine in 2021 without AI. Even after
Black Rockck started implementing AI,
they continued to hire more employees.
Again, no sign of any AIdriven job
losses.
When you use LLMs, they can feel like
they are very capable. They feel like
maybe they should be able to replace at
least some human workers. But when left
on its own, AI is surprisingly
incompetent. In October of 2025, an
organization called the Center for AI
Safety published a study called Remote
Labor Index, measuring AI automation of
remote work. The study was funded by
Scale AI. One of the co-authors is
Alexander Wang, who is a co-founder of
Scale AI and is currently the chief AI
officer of Meta. They went on to
freelancing platforms such as Upwork and
Fiverr. They found freelancing jobs that
in theory an AI should be able to
complete. For example, build a web page
for data visualization, create a 3D
rendering of a product, or animate a
short video. The average cost for these
freelancing jobs was $632.
They tested many different AI models to
complete these freelancing tasks. The
results were atrocious. The best
performing AI agent was Manis. Manis
creates AI agents powered by multiple
frontier LLM. Even it only had a 2.5%
success rate. They gave Manis hundreds
of freelancing tasks. Only 2.5% of the
time did it complete the job acceptably.
Success is defined as creating an output
that a reasonable buyer on Upwork or
Fiverr would accept. All the other LLM
did even worse. In 18% of cases, the AI
agent delivered corrupted files, meaning
you couldn't even open the file. In 36%
of cases, the project was incomplete. In
46% of cases, the project was completed,
but the quality was so bad that a
reasonable buyer would not accept
delivery of it. In 15% of cases, there
were inconsistencies.
That means the AI did create a usable
output, but it's different from what you
asked for. In less than 2% of the cases
did the AI complete the job
successfully.
The Center for AI Safety maintains a
website called remote labor.ai. Every
time a new AI model is released, they
conduct the test with the new model.
Subsequent to them releasing their
original report, OpenAI and Anthropic
have both released new models. As of the
time of recording this video, the best
performing model is Claude Opus 4.5. It
has a success rate of 3.75%.
This study was funded by Scale AI. Scale
AI is a company that sells training data
to LLM developers. They have every
incentive to exaggerate the capabilities
of AI. I give a lot of credit to Scale
AI and Alexander Wang for having the
integrity to publish this research which
exposes the limitations of current AI
technology.
Daario Amade goes on TV and tries to
scaremonger, saying that 50% of
entry-level jobs will be replaced by AI
within 1 to 5 years. In reality, his
best model can't even complete 4% of
freelancing gigs. If you can't even do a
Fiverr gig, you definitely can't do a
full-time job.
To finish off this video, we need to
debunk one of the most outrageous recent
cases of AI scaremongering. On February
10th, 2026, a guy called Matt Schumer
made a lengthy post on Twitter titled,
"Something big is happening." In the
essay, he claims that AI has reached an
inflection point and will imminently
take everybody's jobs. Schumer's post
went viral, getting over 80 million
views on Twitter. It was quickly picked
up by the mainstream media. The entire
essay was republished in Fortune
magazine. Schumer was invited to give
interviews on mainstream news outlets,
including CNN and The Information. Once
we look at Schumer's resume, you'll see
why it's outrageous that this man is
given any airtime at all. Matt Schumer
is the founder and CEO of an AI startup
called Hyperite. It is an AI based text
editor. It is powered by a version of
Meta's Llama open-source model. In
September of 2024, Schumer claimed to
have created his own open- source LLM
called Reflection 70B. He started with
Meta's open source Llama 3.1 model. He
used an advanced technique called
reflection tuning which enables LMS to
fix themselves. This drastically
improved his capabilities. Schumer
claimed to have tested his new LLM on
various benchmarks. On all the
benchmarks, it performed better than
Chat GPT. On most of the benchmarks, it
performed better than Claude. If true,
this would be a great achievement. Open
AAI and Anthropic spent billions of
dollars to develop their Frontier AI
models. Matt Schumer, with a tiny
fraction of that budget, created a new
open- source LLM that performs even
better. There's only one problem. It was
all fake. Schumer made Reflection 70B
open- source so anybody could test it.
People soon found out that it was
actually just a rapper that used
Claude's API on the back end. People
would give it prompts and would give the
exact same output as Claude Sonet 3.5.
Schumer set up Reflection 70B so that it
wasn't allowed to say the word Claude.
He didn't want the LM to call itself
Claude. If you asked it to say the word
Claude, it is programmed to only return
blank text. Matt Schumer lied to the
public. He said he created a
groundbreaking LLM when in reality he
created nothing. He just used the Claw
API. He went through great lengths to
hide this, but he was exposed
nonetheless. The fact that the
mainstream media takes this guy
seriously is a testament to how gullible
they are. You can read Matt Schumer's
viral essay if you want. It's on his
Twitter account, but it's extremely long
and mostly not worth reading. 90% of it
is hyperbolic assertions with zero
citations or evidence. There's only one
part where he makes specific claims. He
says he started using Chad GBT 5.3
Codeex. That's OpenAI's latest coding
LLM. He says he made an app with Codeex.
The app can even open itself and click
buttons. Schumer does not explain what
this app does. He does not provide any
evidence that this app even exists.
We're just supposed to take his word for
it.
All right, guys. That wraps it up for
this video. What do you think about AI
taking jobs? Let us know in the comments
section below. As always, thank you so
much for watching and we'll see you in
the next one. Wall Street Millennial
signing